Installing UiPath Studio. Let us install UiPath Studio so that we can start building our very first
robot together! We do this by downloading and installing UiPath Studio after signing up and creating
an account at UiPath.com
So let's go through this registration process together.
Start by opening the web browser of your choice and navigate to UiPath.com
Once the website loads look for the "Try UiPath Free" button. On my screen, you can see it in the middle
of the website as well as on the upper right hand corner of the screen.
If you don't find these buttons, navigate directly to the sign up page using the following link:
cloud.uipath.com/portal_/register
On the sign up page, on the right hand side, you can see the different options and alternatives for
creating your own UiPath Automation account.
On the left hand side, you will find some additional information of what you will get access to by
creating your account.
Some of you may see the following text:
"Try automation cloud for enterprise".
And this brings up a very important point to make, particularly at the start of your RPA journey.
It is useful to know that UiPath comes both as an Enterprise Edition and a Community Edition.
The Community Edition is meant to be used by individual RPA developers, smaller teams and smaller
businesses and for training and educational purposes.
And it's entirely free of charge and has no expiration date.
And for these reasons alone, we will be using the Community Edition of UiPath throughout this course.
However, UiPath also comes as an Enterprise Edition, which is naturally meant to be used by a larger
organization that has different requirements in terms of licenses, robots, as well as the availability
and uptime of the UiPath Orchestrator Service and availability of 24/7 customer and technical support
directly from UiPath.
So keep this in mind when signing up for your own UiPath account that you are in fact registering for
the Community Edition.
So once you've confirmed that you are on the correct sign up page - not on the Enterprise but on the
Community Edition - you can choose which alternative you want to sign in.
You can sign in with your Google account, with your Microsoft account, with your LinkedIn account
or with your email.
And that is what I'm going to do.
So I click sign up with email and I have the following fields to fill out: Organization name, my first
name, my last name, country, email and the password that I want to use to log into the account in the
future.
So let's proceed to complete the sign up process.
The first thing we need to do is to enter our organization name, and if you are like me and use your private
and personal email and don't have an organization name to enter, don't worry.
You can still complete the sign up by, for instance, using your last name as the organization name.
Now, if you have an organization name to enter, feel free to do so,
but you can continue signing up even if you don't.
In my case, my last name is "Flaa", so I enter this as the organization name.
My first name is "Tor-Inge" and my last name is again "Flaa".
I select my country, which is Norway, and then I fill in my email and the password I want to use to
log into my account in the future.
You then have to confirm that you agree to the license terms an acceptable use policies, in addition,
you have the option to receive information about UiPath products, services, events and promotions by
email.
And I strongly suggest you do so as there are many, many exciting things to follow from UiPath in
the near future.
So once all the information has been filled in and the appropriate boxes has been ticked off, you can press
sign up. Now before we can download and install
UiPath Studio
We need to verify our email.
And in order to do that, log into the email account you used to register, find the email from
UiPath Platform and verify your email address by pressing the verify email button.
This should quickly bring you back to the UiPath website, and as soon as the website is finished
loading, you can download UiPath Studio,
so press the blue button.
This should start
your download process and depending on your internet speed, it may take some time, but as soon as
the download is complete, you could either click the application directly from the download toolbar
or you can open the download folder to find the file on your computer. Proceed to click the
file to start the installation process.
Again, this may take some time, so give it a few minutes.
As soon as the installation is completed, you will be asked to sign in.
Now it's important to know that unless you created an account in advance of downloading and installing
UiPath Studio, it will be unable to complete this process step.
But because we already created an account, pressing sign in will automatically connect your Studio
to the UiPath cloud solution.
In some cases you might be asked in a dialog box in your web browser to allow UiPath to connect.
If that's the case, do so.
Some of you may be prompted with a window where you have to choose a profile, and in this window
you will have to choose between UiPath Studio, UiPath Studio Pro and UiPath StudioX.
And as we know from the previous video, we should choose UiPath Studio.
Congratulations!
You have successfully installed UiPath Studio and you're now ready to start building and running your
own personal robots.